# 3Dscanner
Final Year Project

<b>ABSTRACT</b>

Today’s market is flooded with many kinds of 3D scanners. Most of them either use Laser technology or Image scanning. Both of these techniques use high end equipments like Laser source or high resolution Web cams. Tough they deliver highly accurate results their cost is equally high. To optimize between accuracy and price a distance sensor can be used to plot the points in 3-D space. This scanner detects the distance of the points from the sensor and calculates its location in space. The initial model is developed to plot 90*90 i.e 8100 points on the object to be scanned. Later to increase the finess of the CAD model these point can be increased. For getting the accurate distance the moment of the sensor is kept at a low pace and free from vibrations. An algorithm using concept of point cloud is used to create a mesh. This mesh is rewritten in the format of STL file which is generated in C++. STL is a widely used format in almost all the domains of CAD modelling. Thus the object can either be viewed in any CAD software or can be 3D printed to check the accuracy. Major applications of this technology are in Paleantology where the researchers cannot handle the fossils for a long time for theis study. Reason being they are very delicate. Thus those fossils can be 3D scanned and printed in a robust material. This technology does not vary its output according to irregularity of the shape of object. The scanning of one point does not affect the other point before the data is processed in the algorithm.
